### Q4.6

Repeat the previous exercise with the following modifications: the input number is given in decimal and the program displays the result of (integer) dividing the input by 4. You should not use the ```GetInt``` routine to read the input number. Instead, you should read the input as a string using ```GetStr```. A typical interaction of the program is (user input is shown in bold):

​				Please input a positive number (<65,535): **41231**
​				41231/4 = 10307
​				Do you want to terminate the program (Y/N): **Y**

Remember that the decimal number is read as a string of digit characters. Therefore, you will have to convert it to binary form to store internally. This conversion requires multiplication by 10 (see Appendix A). We haven’t discussed multiplication instruction yet (and you should not use it even if you are familiar with it). But there is a way of doing multiplication by 10 using only the instructions discussed in this chapter. (If you have done the exercises of this chapter, you already know how!)

#### Previous Exercise (Q4.5)

Using only the assembly language instructions discussed so far, write a program to
accept a number in hexadecimal form and display the decimal equivalent of the number.
A typical interaction of your program is (user input is shown in bold):

​				Please input a positive number in hex (4 digits max.): **A10F**
​				The decimal equivalent of A10FH is 41231
​				Do you want to terminate the program (Y/N): **Y**

You should refer to Appendix A for an algorithm to convert from base b to decimal.
*Hints*:

1. Required multiplication can be done by the ```shl``` instruction.
2. Once you have converted the hex number into the equivalent in binary using the
   algorithm of Appendix A, you can use the ```PutInt``` routine to display the decimal
   equivalent.

