
### Q06.03

Modify Program 6.4 to read marks from the user. The first number of the input indicates the number of students in class (i.e., number of rows), and the next number represents the number of tests given to the class (i.e., number of columns). Your program should be able to handle up to 20 students and 5 tests. Report error when exceeding these limits.

#### Example 6.4 Finding the sum of a column in a two-dimensional array.
Consider the `class_marks` array representing the test scores of a class. For simplicity, assume that there are only five students in the class. Also, assume that the class is given three tests. As we discussed before, we can use a 5 × 3 array to store the marks. Each row represents the three test marks of a student in the class. The first column represents the marks of the first test; the second column represents the marks of the second test, and so on. The objective of this example is to find the sum of the last test marks for the class. The program listing is given in Program 6.4.
##### Program 6.4 Finding the sum of a column in a two-dimensional array
```assembly
01: ;Sum of a column in a 2-dimensional array     TEST_SUM.ASM
02: ;
03: ; 		Objective: To demonstrate array index manipulation
04: ; 		           in a two-dimensional array of integers.
05: ;               Input: None.
06: ;		   Output: Displays the sum.
07: %include "io.mac"
08:
09: .DATA
10: NO_ROWS 	 EQU 5
11: NO_COLUMNS 	 EQU 3
12: NO_ROW_BYTES EQU NO_COLUMNS * 2 ; number of bytes per row
13: class_marks  dw 90,89,99
14:	         dw 79,66,70
15:	         dw 70,60,77
16:	         dw 60,55,68
17:	         dw 51,59,57
18:
19: sum_msg 	 db "The sum of the last test marks is: ",0
20:
21: .CODE
22: 	.STARTUP
23: 	mov ECX,NO_ROWS			      ; loop iteration count
24: 	sub AX,AX ; sum = 0
25: 	; ESI = index of class_marks[0,2]
26: 	sub EBX,EBX
27: 	mov ESI,NO_COLUMNS-1
28: sum_loop:
29: 	add AX,[class_marks+EBX+ESI*2]
30: 	add EBX,NO_ROW_BYTES
31: 	loop sum_loop
32:
33: 	PutStr sum_msg
34: 	PutInt AX
35: 	nwln
36: done:
37: 	.EXIT
```
To access individual test marks, we use based-indexed addressing with a displacement on line 29. Note that even though we have used
```
[class_marks+EBX+ESI*2]
```
it is translated by the assembler as
```
[EBX+(ESI*2)+constant]
```
where the `constant` is the offset of `class_marks`. For this to work, the EBX should store the offset of the row in which we are interested. For this reason, after initializing the EBX to zero to point to the first row (line 26), `NO_ROW_BYTES` is added in the loop body (line 30). The ESI register is used as the column index. This works for row-major ordering.
